#summary Building a proxmark3
#sidebar Navigation

=Building=

<wiki:toc/>

-----

==Can I build/buy one ?==
Some people sell ready-made Proxmark3's, such as http://proxmark3.com/. As these are made from very small production runs, the devices are not cheap, and run in the region of 400€. I actually have no idea of the size of the actual Proxmark3 'market' and whether resellers do sell a lot of devices or not.

You can also try to do everything yourself : all the sources including HW design are Open Source, so you can send gerber files to your favorite online PCB manufacturer & get a quotation. Then you will either need very advanced soldering skills to solder everything onto the Proxmark3 yourself - remember, we are talking full CMS and narrow pin spacing chips - or send the boards + components to specialized fab houses who will populate them for you. How expensive ? I don't really know myself since I didn'go down that route.

Very good examples of building a Proxmark3 yourself are shown on this and this page. Read it and then decide how you want to play it ! What tools do I need ?

If you want to build a proxmark3 yourself, then you should not need any explanation on the tools needed to do this. If you do, you are probably out of your depth already, no offense :-)

When running the device, at the very least you will need :

 * A USB/mini-USB cable
 * A soldering iron, enamel wire and skills to make your own antenna(s)
 * A Linux or Windows PC to run the client
 * Quite possibly a JTAG probe to get back on your feet should you break something in the Proxmark3 software-wise. Building tips Hirose connector

The Hirose antenna connector for the Proxmark3 is actually very easy to build for cheap : you just need to look for "hirose usb cable" on google to find pre-built Hirose cables for 4 to 8 euros a piece. In the antenna section, you can actually see how to use such as Hirose USB cable to build a nice HF antenna.