#summary Configuring the development environment in Windows.
#sidebar Navigation
<wiki:toc>
=Getting started=

It is assumed that the reader of this document is the local administrator of a machine running Windows 7. This document is intended as a guide only. Group policies and custom configurations are outside the scope of this document. This guide has not been tested against the “Home” or “Starter” editions of Windows 7.

=Requirements=
* A computer running Windows 7 with an available USB port.
* A USB Mini-B lead.
* A Proxmark III.
* HF and / or LF antenna for the Proxmark.
A technical understanding of the Proxmark III is not required for the installation process.

=Development environment installation=
# Download (and install) 7-ZIP from here: http://www.7-zip.org/download.html
# Download (and install) TortoiseSVN from here: http://tortoisesvn.net/downloads.html
# Download “ProxSpace-20100226-r390.7z” from: http://code.google.com/p/proxmark3/downloads/list
# “ProxSpace-20100226-r390.7z” should be extracted wherever you want to keep the Proxmark project. Additionally, the location should not include spaces. For instance – “C:\Projects\Proxmark” would be acceptable whereas “C:\Users\Administrator\My Projects\Proxmark” would not.
# Assuming you installed 7-ZIP using all of the default options, you should have 7-ZIP context menu items.
# Right-click “ProxSpace-20100226-r390.7z” and select 7-Zip > Extract Here.
# Assuming you installed TortoiseSVN using all of the default options, you should have subversion context menu items.
# Go in to the newly created ProxSpace folder and right-click the “pm3” folder. Select SVN Update.
# In the ProxSpace folder there should be a file called “runme.bat”. Open this file with a suitable text editor. (N++ is recommended)
 # You will need to modify the variable "MYPATH".
   EXAMPLE
   If your ProxSpace folder path is “C:\ProxMark\ProxSpace” you would need to change the “MYPATH” variable to “set MYPATH=%~d0\ProxMark\ProxSpace”.
 # The last line of the batch file might have a forward slash – “msys/msys.bat”. You will need to change this to “msys\msys.bat ”.
 # Save and close the file.
# Test the configuration by running “runme.bat”. You should see a Minimalist GNU terminal window.
# Type “exit” to close the window.
